All right welcome back my students.
So I am in the post controller.
We're going to be using this file post control.
We're going to be using and it's OK for this lecture.
We're going to be learning about Querrey scopes and you can find out more into the communication if
after this lecture is not clearer to you.
Basically what we call where scope's allow us to kind of create shortcuts for really complex operations
.
Let me show you what I mean with shortcuts.
OK.
And the way I like to explain is that we can have a Laubach of really complex piece of cold here that
requires a lot of lines and we can convert that into a small function then use that in our controller
.
OK.
And we'll be working with the model.
As a matter of fact OK.
So let's say lxi right now this functionality in that is right in the fool's controller.
This functionality is displaying this bull's eye here right.
If we wanted to let's say display the latest polls Larabee has a really cool functionality.
What we say latest but we need to type in to get to get that collection so that way we can look to it
right.
So we can this is the latest on top.
So really cool stuff right.
We can also do this we can say order.
This is a long way.
Order by id descending.
Right.
And we just get the requests you get again to get that collection.
And then we should see a change here because it's the same thing right now if we do ascending it would
show us the oldest first right sending and we go back and we refresh.
All right cool.
All right so we know that.
But this is just a very small sample.
If we had a big line here like a lot of code here this would really look really ugly right.
It would not be nice.
So we work we schools where we can do is we can minimize that.
Why are we going to do is I'm going on to I'm going to take this out command and control it and just
going to leave it like this for now.
And I have it in my clipboard OK.
And that's basically my mouse memory right.
My computer memory that way I can paste it again that's what I mean with clipboard.
But anyway you guys know that I'm going to go to the pulse controller here and I'm going to create a
square with scope.
So what we're going to do is we're going to see a public
static function.
And this is the convention.
OK.
The first thing that you use is the word scope and then whatever name you want to give it.
All right we've got to call ours the latest.
I'm going to use camel case.
That's the way the convention.
All right.
You create your scope.
So if you're Kosko was name.
As a column you would put add a column because you will have to put everything in camel case every word
separate it right.
So scope latest and I'm going to do a Querrey here.
Let's make sure we have a T here now.
BHB storm is happy.
Ok cool.
So here I'm going to piece that call that I had in my clipboard that I have and I'm going to do.
I'm going to take the Querrey and I do it like this.
Now what I want to do is return it.
Now let's just go back here and see that this is not working right now.
OK.
So I refresh that if I go to Paul's controller which is not working right.
Let's go back here to for post.
All right so when I returned this squares scope and let's go back to Apple's controller in here I'm
going to find I'm going can actually call my static method.
Watch this.
Let's go back enter.
And as you can see look at this.
It's working beautifully.
All right.
So you see we made a really you know it wasn't a really complex piece of code but it was we clean that
up a little bit.
You see that now remember the Meribel has one that works like this with a get.
So OK.
We also do that.
But of course it's not working because we have a it's called there and it doesn't work like this.
But anyway so now you see how we can make it very complex called super easy work with quite scopes.
All right so you can minimize the line of code and your controllers very easily by doing this method
.
OK.
Techniques.
Anyway I hope this was you know something that you learned from that that you liked and you like more
to find the if you want to find out more about where was Kolbe's because we just basically learn the
tip of the iceberg here with goes you can there's a lot more to it but I wanted to introduce you to
it.
OK.
Just in case you want to dig deeper into this.
So anyway if you are happy with this and you want to find out more go to the mentation go to the next
lecture or whatever you want to do.
Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next lectures